well of course in general
um i think it's important it's become
more important now so about uh
five years ago um the chances that you
would get
a genetic test and get something useful
out of that genetic test
if you did not have quite unusual or
rare diseases
the genetic tests were not very useful
we are slowly finding out that
genetic tests can be useful in the
medical setting i'll give you an example
give you a couple of examples
one example is the history of
heart disease it turns out that
for the last five or six years um
doing you know doing a genetic test to
figure out if you had a higher risk of
uh of uh uh coronary disease this is
disease that
that causes heart attacks um was not
very useful
but now using new methods
that have been developed in the lab we
can predict
your risk of coronary disease and the
future risk of having a heart attacks
using not one gene but really hundreds
if not thousands of genes
each of which contributes a little bit
of risk but if you accumulate them all
together
all the variants together you can now
really get a sense of risk
that's true for some diseases i give you
one example
heart attacks a second example is breast
cancer
so again
there were patients with um
obviously there are some genes that
increase the risk of breast cancer
genes like brca1 and brca2
but there were many women who had
neither mutations or changes in brca1 or
brca2
but who had a higher risk of breast
cancer
and this was a big question for the
medical field why do they have a high
risk of breast cancer
and we now know that part of that risk
not all of it but part of it is because
of genetics
and much like heart disease it's not one
gene but
small risks that accumulate over
uh many genes hundreds if not thousands
of genes
so i would say that we are making
progress in the usefulness of genetic
tests
beyond just unusual and rare diseases
into much more common diseases such as
heart attacks and
and breast cancer um i should also say
that there have been now multiple
projects
trying to figure out um whether
you you can predict uh your risk of
developing
severe covet infection based on genetic
sequencing
of of yourself of patients um
and thus far nothing has really stood
out
um except for um
a couple of studies one dutch study
which had very few patients these
dutch investigators took
young brothers brother pairs
so families in which two young brother
pairs
both developed very severe covet um
as you can imagine that's very unusual
because generally speaking
young men or and women but young people
in general don't tend to develop severe
covet
so they looked through their hospital
databases and found
two families in which they had two
brothers
living separately and both the brothers
developed very severe they were both
young
under 35 and both the brothers developed
severe covet in fact one of them died
one of the four
died of kobed and they sequenced the
genes and
surprisingly they found that there was
one
gene that seems to be altered or mutated
in all four
of these individuals the chance
chance that that happens by pure chance
alone is very low
and this gene is in fact related it's an
immune system gene
so um and in and has been previously
shown
to have a relationship between our
capacity
to be resistant to uh viral infections
so
these kinds of projects are very
informative because they can tell us
they can identify patients who are at
higher risk for developing severe covid
that's one
but more importantly they can illuminate
or tell us
how the immune system's reaction to
covid
can guide us towards therapies what
therapies we need and in fact
some of the therapies that that people
are developing around the world in fact
some of the therapies that we are
developing
in the lab are is based on these
insights
from this genetic studies